# Get started with Tailwind CSS

> Installation



Installation

Tailwind CSS works by scanning all of your HTML files, JavaScript components, and any other templates for class names, generating the corresponding styles and then writing them to a static CSS file.

It's fast, flexible, and reliable — with zero-runtime.

### Framework Guides

Framework-specific guides that cover our recommended approach to installing Tailwind CSS in a number of popular environments.

*   #### [Next.js](/docs/installation/framework-guides/nextjs)
    
    Full-featured React framework with great developer experience.
    
*   #### [Laravel](/docs/installation/framework-guides/laravel/vite)
    
    PHP web application framework with expressive, elegant syntax.
    
*   #### [Nuxt](/docs/installation/framework-guides/nuxt)
    
    Intuitive Vue framework for building universal applications.
    
*   #### [SolidJS](/docs/installation/framework-guides/solidjs)
    
    A tool for building simple, performant, and reactive user interfaces.
    
*   #### [SvelteKit](/docs/installation/framework-guides/sveltekit)
    
    The fastest way to build apps of all sizes with Svelte.js.
    
*   #### [Angular](/docs/installation/framework-guides/angular)
    
    Platform for building mobile and desktop web applications.
    
*   #### [Ruby on Rails](/docs/installation/framework-guides/ruby-on-rails)
    
    Full-stack framework with all the tools needed to build amazing web apps.
    
*   #### [React Router](/docs/installation/framework-guides/react-router)
    
    A standards‑focused router you can deploy anywhere.
    
*   #### [Phoenix](/docs/installation/framework-guides/phoenix)
    
    A framework to build rich, interactive applications with Elixir.
    
*   #### [Parcel](/docs/installation/framework-guides/parcel)
    
    The zero-configuration build tool for the web.
    
*   #### [Symfony](/docs/installation/framework-guides/symfony)
    
    A PHP framework to create websites and web applications.
    
*   #### [Meteor](/docs/installation/framework-guides/meteor)
    
    The full stack JavaScript framework for developing cross-platform apps.
    
*   #### [AdonisJS](/docs/installation/framework-guides/adonisjs)
    
    A fully featured web framework for Node.js.
    
*   #### [Ember.js](/docs/installation/framework-guides/emberjs)
    
    A JavaScript framework for ambitious web developers.
    
*   #### [Astro](/docs/installation/framework-guides/astro)
    
    The all-in-one web framework designed for speed.
    
*   #### [Qwik](/docs/installation/framework-guides/qwik)
    
    Build instantly-interactive web apps without effort.
    
*   #### [Rspack](/docs/installation/framework-guides/rspack/react)
    
    A fast Rust-based web bundler.
