# react-dom-components

> All of the built-in browser components support some props and events.



All of the built-in browser components support some props and events.

This includes React-specific props like `ref` and `dangerouslySetInnerHTML`.

They are special in React because passing the `value` prop to them makes them _[controlled.](about:/reference/react-dom/components/input#controlling-an-input-with-a-state-variable)_

These built-in browser components let you load external resources or annotate the document with metadata:

They are special in React because React can render them into the document head, suspend while resources are loading, and enact other behaviors that are described on the reference page for each specific component.

React supports all built-in browser HTML components. This includes:

### Note

Similar to the [DOM standard,](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model) React uses a `camelCase` convention for prop names. For example, you’ll write `tabIndex` instead of `tabindex`. You can convert existing HTML to JSX with an [online converter.](https://transform.tools/html-to-jsx)

If you render a tag with a dash, like `<my-element>`, React will assume you want to render a [custom HTML element.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_custom_elements) In React, rendering custom elements works differently from rendering built-in browser tags:

If you render a built-in browser HTML element with an [`is`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/is) attribute, it will also be treated as a custom element.

React supports all built-in browser SVG components. This includes:

### Note

Similar to the [DOM standard,](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model) React uses a `camelCase` convention for prop names. For example, you’ll write `tabIndex` instead of `tabindex`. You can convert existing SVG to JSX with an [online converter.](https://transform.tools/)

Namespaced attributes also have to be written without the colon:

*   `xlink:actuate` becomes `xlinkActuate`.
*   `xlink:arcrole` becomes `xlinkArcrole`.
*   `xlink:href` becomes `xlinkHref`.
*   `xlink:role` becomes `xlinkRole`.
*   `xlink:show` becomes `xlinkShow`.
*   `xlink:title` becomes `xlinkTitle`.
*   `xlink:type` becomes `xlinkType`.
*   `xml:base` becomes `xmlBase`.
*   `xml:lang` becomes `xmlLang`.
*   `xml:space` becomes `xmlSpace`.
*   `xmlns:xlink` becomes `xmlnsXlink`.
