# hooks-useformstatus

> useFormStatus is a Hook that gives you status information of the last form submission.



`useFormStatus` is a Hook that gives you status information of the last form submission.

    const { pending, data, method, action } = useFormStatus();

*   [Reference](#reference)
    *   [`useFormStatus()`](#use-form-status)
*   [Usage](#usage)
    *   [Display a pending state during form submission](#display-a-pending-state-during-form-submission)
    *   [Read the form data being submitted](#read-form-data-being-submitted)
*   [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
    *   [`status.pending` is never `true`](#pending-is-never-true)

* * *

## Reference[](#reference "Link for Reference")

### `useFormStatus()`[](#use-form-status "Link for this heading")

The `useFormStatus` Hook provides status information of the last form submission.

    import { useFormStatus } from "react-dom";import action from './actions';function Submit() {const status = useFormStatus();return <button disabled={status.pending}>Submit</button>}export default function App() {return (<form action={action}><Submit /></form>);}

To get status information, the `Submit` component must be rendered within a `<form>`. The Hook returns information like the `pending` property which tells you if the form is actively submitting.

In the above example, `Submit` uses this information to disable `<button>` presses while the form is submitting.

[See more examples below.](#usage)

#### Parameters[](#parameters "Link for Parameters")

`useFormStatus` does not take any parameters.

#### Returns[](#returns "Link for Returns")

A `status` object with the following properties:

*   `pending`: A boolean. If `true`, this means the parent `<form>` is pending submission. Otherwise, `false`.
    
*   `data`: An object implementing the [`FormData interface`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FormData) that contains the data the parent `<form>` is submitting. If there is no active submission or no parent `<form>`, it will be `null`.
    
*   `method`: A string value of either `'get'` or `'post'`. This represents whether the parent `<form>` is submitting with either a `GET` or `POST` [HTTP method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods). By default, a `<form>` will use the `GET` method and can be specified by the [`method`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/form#method) property.
    

*   `action`: A reference to the function passed to the `action` prop on the parent `<form>`. If there is no parent `<form>`, the property is `null`. If there is a URI value provided to the `action` prop, or no `action` prop specified, `status.action` will be `null`.

#### Caveats[](#caveats "Link for Caveats")

*   The `useFormStatus` Hook must be called from a component that is rendered inside a `<form>`.
*   `useFormStatus` will only return status information for a parent `<form>`. It will not return status information for any `<form>` rendered in that same component or children components.

* * *

## Usage[](#usage "Link for Usage")

### Display a pending state during form submission[](#display-a-pending-state-during-form-submission "Link for Display a pending state during form submission")

To display a pending state while a form is submitting, you can call the `useFormStatus` Hook in a component rendered in a `<form>` and read the `pending` property returned.

Here, we use the `pending` property to indicate the form is submitting.

import { useFormStatus } from "react-dom";
import { submitForm } from "./actions.js";

function Submit() {
  const { pending } = useFormStatus();
  return (
    <button type\="submit" disabled\={pending}\>
      {pending ? "Submitting..." : "Submit"}
    </button\>
  );
}

function Form({ action }) {
  return (
    <form action\={action}\>
      <Submit />
    </form\>
  );
}

export default function App() {
  return <Form action\={submitForm} />;
}

### Pitfall

##### `useFormStatus` will not return status information for a `<form>` rendered in the same component.[](#useformstatus-will-not-return-status-information-for-a-form-rendered-in-the-same-component "Link for this heading")

The `useFormStatus` Hook only returns status information for a parent `<form>` and not for any `<form>` rendered in the same component calling the Hook, or child components.

    function Form() {// 🚩 `pending` will never be true// useFormStatus does not track the form rendered in this componentconst { pending } = useFormStatus();return <form action={submit}></form>;}

Instead call `useFormStatus` from inside a component that is located inside `<form>`.

    function Submit() {// ✅ `pending` will be derived from the form that wraps the Submit componentconst { pending } = useFormStatus(); return <button disabled={pending}>...</button>;}function Form() {// This is the <form> `useFormStatus` tracksreturn (<form action={submit}><Submit /></form>);}

### Read the form data being submitted[](#read-form-data-being-submitted "Link for Read the form data being submitted")

You can use the `data` property of the status information returned from `useFormStatus` to display what data is being submitted by the user.

Here, we have a form where users can request a username. We can use `useFormStatus` to display a temporary status message confirming what username they have requested.

import {useState, useMemo, useRef} from 'react';
import {useFormStatus} from 'react-dom';

export default function UsernameForm() {
  const {pending, data} = useFormStatus();

  return (
    <div\>
      <h3\>Request a Username: </h3\>
      <input type\="text" name\="username" disabled\={pending}/>
      <button type\="submit" disabled\={pending}\>
        Submit
      </button\>
      <br />
      <p\>{data ? \`Requesting ${data?.get("username")}...\`: ''}</p\>
    </div\>
  );
}

* * *

## Troubleshooting[](#troubleshooting "Link for Troubleshooting")

### `status.pending` is never `true`[](#pending-is-never-true "Link for this heading")

`useFormStatus` will only return status information for a parent `<form>`.

If the component that calls `useFormStatus` is not nested in a `<form>`, `status.pending` will always return `false`. Verify `useFormStatus` is called in a component that is a child of a `<form>` element.

`useFormStatus` will not track the status of a `<form>` rendered in the same component. See [Pitfall](#useformstatus-will-not-return-status-information-for-a-form-rendered-in-the-same-component) for more details.
