# server-rendertostaticmarkup

> renderToStaticMarkup renders a non-interactive React tree to an HTML string.



`renderToStaticMarkup` renders a non-interactive React tree to an HTML string.

    const html = renderToStaticMarkup(reactNode, options?)

*   [Reference](#reference)
    *   [`renderToStaticMarkup(reactNode, options?)`](#rendertostaticmarkup)
*   [Usage](#usage)
    *   [Rendering a non-interactive React tree as HTML to a string](#rendering-a-non-interactive-react-tree-as-html-to-a-string)

* * *

## Reference[](#reference "Link for Reference")

### `renderToStaticMarkup(reactNode, options?)`[](#rendertostaticmarkup "Link for this heading")

On the server, call `renderToStaticMarkup` to render your app to HTML.

    import { renderToStaticMarkup } from 'react-dom/server';const html = renderToStaticMarkup(<Page />);

It will produce non-interactive HTML output of your React components.

[See more examples below.](#usage)

#### Parameters[](#parameters "Link for Parameters")

*   `reactNode`: A React node you want to render to HTML. For example, a JSX node like `<Page />`.
*   **optional** `options`: An object for server render.
    *   **optional** `identifierPrefix`: A string prefix React uses for IDs generated by [`useId`.](/reference/react/useId) Useful to avoid conflicts when using multiple roots on the same page.

#### Returns[](#returns "Link for Returns")

An HTML string.

#### Caveats[](#caveats "Link for Caveats")

*   `renderToStaticMarkup` output cannot be hydrated.
    
*   `renderToStaticMarkup` has limited Suspense support. If a component suspends, `renderToStaticMarkup` immediately sends its fallback as HTML.
    
*   `renderToStaticMarkup` works in the browser, but using it in the client code is not recommended. If you need to render a component to HTML in the browser, [get the HTML by rendering it into a DOM node.](about:/reference/react-dom/server/renderToString#removing-rendertostring-from-the-client-code)
    

* * *

## Usage[](#usage "Link for Usage")

### Rendering a non-interactive React tree as HTML to a string[](#rendering-a-non-interactive-react-tree-as-html-to-a-string "Link for Rendering a non-interactive React tree as HTML to a string")

Call `renderToStaticMarkup` to render your app to an HTML string which you can send with your server response:

    import { renderToStaticMarkup } from 'react-dom/server';// The route handler syntax depends on your backend frameworkapp.use('/', (request, response) => {const html = renderToStaticMarkup(<Page />);response.send(html);});

This will produce the initial non-interactive HTML output of your React components.

### Pitfall

This method renders **non-interactive HTML that cannot be hydrated.** This is useful if you want to use React as a simple static page generator, or if you’re rendering completely static content like emails.

Interactive apps should use [`renderToString`](/reference/react-dom/server/renderToString) on the server and [`hydrateRoot`](/reference/react-dom/client/hydrateRoot) on the client.
