# file-conventions-unauthorized

> This feature is currently experimental and subject to change, it's not recommended for production. Try it out and share your feedback on GitHub.

| Version | Changes                     |
| ------- | --------------------------- |
| v15.1.0 | unauthorized.js introduced. |

## unauthorized.js

This feature is currently experimental and subject to change, it's not recommended for production. Try it out and share your feedback on [GitHub](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues).

The **unauthorized** file is used to render UI when the [`unauthorized`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/unauthorized) function is invoked during authentication. Along with allowing you to customize the UI, Next.js will return a `401` status code.

app/unauthorized.tsx

    import Login from '@/app/components/Login'
     
    export default function Unauthorized() {
      return (
        <main>
          <h1>401 - Unauthorized</h1>
          <p>Please log in to access this page.</p>
          <Login />
        </main>
      )
    }

## [Reference](#reference)

### [Props](#props)

`unauthorized.js` components do not accept any props.

## [Examples](#examples)

### [Displaying login UI to unauthenticated users](#displaying-login-ui-to-unauthenticated-users)

You can use [`unauthorized`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/unauthorized) function to render the `unauthorized.js` file with a login UI.

app/dashboard/page.tsx

    import { verifySession } from '@/app/lib/dal'
    import { unauthorized } from 'next/navigation'
     
    export default async function DashboardPage() {
      const session = await verifySession()
     
      if (!session) {
        unauthorized()
      }
     
      return <div>Dashboard</div>
    }

app/unauthorized.tsx

    import Login from '@/app/components/Login'
     
    export default function UnauthorizedPage() {
      return (
        <main>
          <h1>401 - Unauthorized</h1>
          <p>Please log in to access this page.</p>
          <Login />
        </main>
      )
    }

## [Version History](#version-history)
