# functions-draft-mode

> draftMode is an async function allows you to enable and disable Draft Mode, as well as check if Draft Mode is enabled in a Server Component.

| Method    | Description                                                                     |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| isEnabled | A boolean value that indicates if Draft Mode is enabled.                        |
| enable()  | Enables Draft Mode in a Route Handler by setting a cookie (__prerender_bypass). |
| disable() | Disables Draft Mode in a Route Handler by deleting a cookie.                    |

| Version    | Changes                                                     |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| v15.0.0-RC | draftMode is now an async function. A codemod is available. |
| v13.4.0    | draftMode introduced.                                       |

## draftMode

`draftMode` is an **async** function allows you to enable and disable [Draft Mode](/docs/app/guides/draft-mode), as well as check if Draft Mode is enabled in a [Server Component](/docs/app/getting-started/server-and-client-components).

    import { draftMode } from 'next/headers'
     
    export default async function Page() {
      const { isEnabled } = await draftMode()
    }

## [Reference](#reference)

The following methods and properties are available:

## [Good to know](#good-to-know)

*   `draftMode` is an **asynchronous** function that returns a promise. You must use `async/await` or React's [`use`](https://react.dev/reference/react/use) function.
    *   In version 14 and earlier, `draftMode` was a synchronous function. To help with backwards compatibility, you can still access it synchronously in Next.js 15, but this behavior will be deprecated in the future.
*   A new bypass cookie value will be generated each time you run `next build`. This ensures that the bypass cookie can’t be guessed.
*   To test Draft Mode locally over HTTP, your browser will need to allow third-party cookies and local storage access.

## [Examples](#examples)

### [Enabling Draft Mode](#enabling-draft-mode)

To enable Draft Mode, create a new [Route Handler](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-handlers) and call the `enable()` method:

    import { draftMode } from 'next/headers'
     
    export async function GET(request: Request) {
      const draft = await draftMode()
      draft.enable()
      return new Response('Draft mode is enabled')
    }

### [Disabling Draft Mode](#disabling-draft-mode)

By default, the Draft Mode session ends when the browser is closed.

To disable Draft Mode manually, call the `disable()` method in your [Route Handler](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-handlers):

    import { draftMode } from 'next/headers'
     
    export async function GET(request: Request) {
      const draft = await draftMode()
      draft.disable()
      return new Response('Draft mode is disabled')
    }

Then, send a request to invoke the Route Handler. If calling the route using the [`<Link>` component](/docs/app/api-reference/components/link), you must pass `prefetch={false}` to prevent accidentally deleting the cookie on prefetch.

### [Checking if Draft Mode is enabled](#checking-if-draft-mode-is-enabled)

You can check if Draft Mode is enabled in a Server Component with the `isEnabled` property:

    import { draftMode } from 'next/headers'
     
    export default async function Page() {
      const { isEnabled } = await draftMode()
      return (
        <main>
          <h1>My Blog Post</h1>
          <p>Draft Mode is currently {isEnabled ? 'Enabled' : 'Disabled'}</p>
        </main>
      )
    }

## [Version History](#version-history)
