# data-fetching-incremental-static-regeneration

> Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) enables you to:

| Deployment Option | Supported         |
| ----------------- | ----------------- |
| Node.js server    | Yes               |
| Docker container  | Yes               |
| Static export     | No                |
| Adapters          | Platform-specific |

| Version | Changes                                     |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| v14.1.0 | Custom cacheHandler is stable.              |
| v13.0.0 | App Router is introduced.                   |
| v12.2.0 | Pages Router: On-Demand ISR is stable       |
| v12.0.0 | Pages Router: Bot-aware ISR fallback added. |
| v9.5.0  | Pages Router: Stable ISR introduced.        |

## Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR)

Examples

*   [Next.js Commerce](https://vercel.com/templates/next.js/nextjs-commerce)
*   [On-Demand ISR](https://on-demand-isr.vercel.app/)
*   [Next.js Forms](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/next-forms)

Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) enables you to:

*   Update static content without rebuilding the entire site
*   Reduce server load by serving prerendered, static pages for most requests
*   Ensure proper `cache-control` headers are automatically added to pages
*   Handle large amounts of content pages without long `next build` times

Here's a minimal example:

    interface Post {
      id: string
      title: string
      content: string
    }
     
    // Next.js will invalidate the cache when a
    // request comes in, at most once every 60 seconds.
    export const revalidate = 60
     
    // We'll prerender only the params from `generateStaticParams` at build time.
    // If a request comes in for a path that hasn't been generated,
    // Next.js will server-render the page on-demand.
    export const dynamicParams = true // or false, to 404 on unknown paths
     
    export async function generateStaticParams() {
      const posts: Post[] = await fetch('https://api.vercel.app/blog').then((res) =>
        res.json()
      )
      return posts.map((post) => ({
        id: String(post.id),
      }))
    }
     
    export default async function Page({
      params,
    }: {
      params: Promise<{ id: string }>
    }) {
      const { id } = await params
      const post: Post = await fetch(`https://api.vercel.app/blog/${id}`).then(
        (res) => res.json()
      )
      return (
        <main>
          <h1>{post.title}</h1>
          <p>{post.content}</p>
        </main>
      )
    }

Here's how this example works:

1.  During `next build`, all known blog posts are generated (there are 25 in this example)
2.  All requests made to these pages (e.g. `/blog/1`) are cached and instantaneous
3.  After 60 seconds has passed, the next request will still show the cached (stale) page
4.  The cache is invalidated and a new version of the page begins generating in the background
5.  Once generated successfully, Next.js will display and cache the updated page
6.  If `/blog/26` is requested, Next.js will generate and cache this page on-demand

## [Reference](#reference)

### [Route segment config](#route-segment-config)

*   [`revalidate`](about:/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config#revalidate)
*   [`dynamicParams`](about:/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config#dynamicparams)

### [Functions](#functions)

*   [`revalidatePath`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidatePath)
*   [`revalidateTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag)

## [Examples](#examples)

### [Time-based revalidation](#time-based-revalidation)

This fetches and displays a list of blog posts on `/blog`. After an hour, the cache for this page is invalidated on the next visit to the page. Then, in the background, a new version of the page is generated with the latest blog posts.

    interface Post {
      id: string
      title: string
      content: string
    }
     
    export const revalidate = 3600 // invalidate every hour
     
    export default async function Page() {
      const data = await fetch('https://api.vercel.app/blog')
      const posts: Post[] = await data.json()
      return (
        <main>
          <h1>Blog Posts</h1>
          <ul>
            {posts.map((post) => (
              <li key={post.id}>{post.title}</li>
            ))}
          </ul>
        </main>
      )
    }

We recommend setting a high revalidation time. For instance, 1 hour instead of 1 second. If you need more precision, consider using on-demand revalidation. If you need real-time data, consider switching to [dynamic rendering](about:/docs/app/getting-started/partial-prerendering#dynamic-rendering).

### [On-demand revalidation with `revalidatePath`](#on-demand-revalidation-with-revalidatepath)

For a more precise method of revalidation, invalidate pages on-demand with the `revalidatePath` function.

For example, this Server Action would get called after adding a new post. Regardless of how you retrieve your data in your Server Component, either using `fetch` or connecting to a database, this will clear the cache for the entire route and allow the Server Component to fetch fresh data.

    'use server'
     
    import { revalidatePath } from 'next/cache'
     
    export async function createPost() {
      // Invalidate the /posts route in the cache
      revalidatePath('/posts')
    }

[View a demo](https://on-demand-isr.vercel.app/) and [explore the source code](https://github.com/vercel/on-demand-isr).

### [On-demand revalidation with `revalidateTag`](#on-demand-revalidation-with-revalidatetag)

For most use cases, prefer revalidating entire paths. If you need more granular control, you can use the `revalidateTag` function. For example, you can tag individual `fetch` calls:

    export default async function Page() {
      const data = await fetch('https://api.vercel.app/blog', {
        next: { tags: ['posts'] },
      })
      const posts = await data.json()
      // ...
    }

If you are using an ORM or connecting to a database, you can use `unstable_cache`:

    import { unstable_cache } from 'next/cache'
    import { db, posts } from '@/lib/db'
     
    const getCachedPosts = unstable_cache(
      async () => {
        return await db.select().from(posts)
      },
      ['posts'],
      { revalidate: 3600, tags: ['posts'] }
    )
     
    export default async function Page() {
      const posts = getCachedPosts()
      // ...
    }

You can then use `revalidateTag` in a [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations) or [Route Handler](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-handlers):

    'use server'
     
    import { revalidateTag } from 'next/cache'
     
    export async function createPost() {
      // Invalidate all data tagged with 'posts' in the cache
      revalidateTag('posts')
    }

### [Handling uncaught exceptions](#handling-uncaught-exceptions)

If an error is thrown while attempting to revalidate data, the last successfully generated data will continue to be served from the cache. On the next subsequent request, Next.js will retry revalidating the data. [Learn more about error handling](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/error-handling).

### [Customizing the cache location](#customizing-the-cache-location)

You can configure the Next.js cache location if you want to persist cached pages and data to durable storage, or share the cache across multiple containers or instances of your Next.js application. [Learn more](about:/docs/app/guides/self-hosting#caching-and-isr).

## [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

### [Debugging cached data in local development](#debugging-cached-data-in-local-development)

If you are using the `fetch` API, you can add additional logging to understand which requests are cached or uncached. [Learn more about the `logging` option](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/logging).

    module.exports = {
      logging: {
        fetches: {
          fullUrl: true,
        },
      },
    }

### [Verifying correct production behavior](#verifying-correct-production-behavior)

To verify your pages are cached and revalidated correctly in production, you can test locally by running `next build` and then `next start` to run the production Next.js server.

This will allow you to test ISR behavior as it would work in a production environment. For further debugging, add the following environment variable to your `.env` file:

    NEXT_PRIVATE_DEBUG_CACHE=1

This will make the Next.js server console log ISR cache hits and misses. You can inspect the output to see which pages are generated during `next build`, as well as how pages are updated as paths are accessed on-demand.

## [Caveats](#caveats)

*   ISR is only supported when using the Node.js runtime (default).
*   ISR is not supported when creating a [Static Export](/docs/app/guides/static-exports).
*   If you have multiple `fetch` requests in a statically rendered route, and each has a different `revalidate` frequency, the lowest time will be used for ISR. However, those revalidate frequencies will still be respected by the [Data Cache](about:/docs/app/deep-dive/caching#data-cache).
*   If any of the `fetch` requests used on a route have a `revalidate` time of `0`, or an explicit `no-store`, the route will be [dynamically rendered](about:/docs/app/getting-started/partial-prerendering#dynamic-rendering).
*   Middleware won't be executed for on-demand ISR requests, meaning any path rewrites or logic in Middleware will not be applied. Ensure you are revalidating the exact path. For example, `/post/1` instead of a rewritten `/post-1`.

## [Platform Support](#platform-support)

Learn how to [configure ISR](about:/docs/app/guides/self-hosting#caching-and-isr) when self-hosting Next.js.

## [Version history](#version-history)
