# next-config-js-logging

> You can configure the logging level and whether the full URL is logged to the console when running Next.js in development mode.



## logging

## [Options](#options)

### [Fetching](#fetching)

You can configure the logging level and whether the full URL is logged to the console when running Next.js in development mode.

Currently, `logging` only applies to data fetching using the `fetch` API. It does not yet apply to other logs inside of Next.js.

    module.exports = {
      logging: {
        fetches: {
          fullUrl: true,
        },
      },
    }

Any `fetch` requests that are restored from the [Server Components HMR cache](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/serverComponentsHmrCache) are not logged by default. However, this can be enabled by setting `logging.fetches.hmrRefreshes` to `true`.

    module.exports = {
      logging: {
        fetches: {
          hmrRefreshes: true,
        },
      },
    }

### [Incoming Requests](#incoming-requests)

By default all the incoming requests will be logged in the console during development. You can use the `incomingRequests` option to decide which requests to ignore. Since this is only logged in development, this option doesn't affect production builds.

    module.exports = {
      logging: {
        incomingRequests: {
          ignore: [/\api\/v1\/health/],
        },
      },
    }

Or you can disable incoming request logging by setting `incomingRequests` to `false`.

    module.exports = {
      logging: {
        incomingRequests: false,
      },
    }

### [Disabling Logging](#disabling-logging)

In addition, you can disable the development logging by setting `logging` to `false`.

    module.exports = {
      logging: false,
    }
