# upgrading-remix

> React Router v7 requires the following minimum versions:

| Remix v2 Package                 |    | React Router v7 Package                   |
| -------------------------------- | -- | ----------------------------------------- |
| @remix-run/architect             | âž¡ï¸ | @react-router/architect                   |
| @remix-run/cloudflare            | âž¡ï¸ | @react-router/cloudflare                  |
| @remix-run/dev                   | âž¡ï¸ | @react-router/dev                         |
| @remix-run/express               | âž¡ï¸ | @react-router/express                     |
| @remix-run/fs-routes             | âž¡ï¸ | @react-router/fs-routes                   |
| @remix-run/node                  | âž¡ï¸ | @react-router/node                        |
| @remix-run/react                 | âž¡ï¸ | react-router                              |
| @remix-run/route-config          | âž¡ï¸ | @react-router/dev                         |
| @remix-run/routes-option-adapter | âž¡ï¸ | @react-router/remix-routes-option-adapter |
| @remix-run/serve                 | âž¡ï¸ | @react-router/serve                       |
| @remix-run/server-runtime        | âž¡ï¸ | react-router                              |
| @remix-run/testing               | âž¡ï¸ | react-router                              |

| Script    | Remix v2                          |    | React Router v7                          |
| --------- | --------------------------------- | -- | ---------------------------------------- |
| dev       | remix vite:dev                    | âž¡ï¸ | react-router dev                         |
| build     | remix vite:build                  | âž¡ï¸ | react-router build                       |
| start     | remix-serve build/server/index.js | âž¡ï¸ | react-router-serve build/server/index.js |
| typecheck | tsc                               | âž¡ï¸ | react-router typegen && tsc              |

## Upgrading from Remix

React Router v7 requires the following minimum versions:

*   `node@20`
*   `react@18`
*   `react-dom@18`

React Router v7 is the next major version of Remix after v2 (see our ["Incremental Path to React 19" blog post](https://remix.run/blog/incremental-path-to-react-19) for more information).

If you have enabled all [Remix v2 future flags](https://remix.run/docs/start/future-flags), upgrading from Remix v2 to React Router v7 mainly involves updating dependencies.

The majority of steps 2-8 can be automatically updated using a [codemod](https://codemod.com/registry/remix-2-react-router-upgrade) created by community member [James Restall](https://github.com/jrestall).

## 1\. Adopt future flags

**ðŸ‘‰ Adopt future flags**

Adopt all existing [future flags](https://remix.run/docs/start/future-flags) in your Remix v2 application.

## 2\. Update dependencies

Most of the "shared" APIs that used to be re-exported through the runtime-specific packages (`@remix-run/node`, `@remix-run/cloudflare`, etc.) have all been collapsed into `react-router` in v7. So instead of importing from `@react-router/node` or `@react-router/cloudflare`, you'll import those directly from `react-router`.

    -import { redirect } from "@remix-run/node";
    +import { redirect } from "react-router";
    

The only APIs you should be importing from the runtime-specific packages in v7 are APIs that are specific to that runtime, such as `createFileSessionStorage` for Node and `createWorkersKVSessionStorage` for Cloudflare.

**ðŸ‘‰ Run the codemod (automated)**

You can automatically update your packages and imports with the following [codemod](https://codemod.com/registry/remix-2-react-router-upgrade). This codemod updates all of your packages and imports. Be sure to commit any pending changes before running the codemod, in case you need to revert.

    npx codemod remix/2/react-router/upgrade
    

**ðŸ‘‰ Install the new dependencies**

After the codemod updates your dependencies, you need to install the dependencies to remove Remix packages and add the new React Router packages.

    npm install
    

**ðŸ‘‰ Update your dependencies (manual)**

If you prefer not to use the codemod, you can manually update your dependencies.

Expand to see a table of package name changes in alphabetical order

## 3\. Change `scripts` in `package.json`

If you used the codemod you can skip this step as it was automatically completed.

**ðŸ‘‰ Update the scripts in your `package.json`**

## 4\. Add a `routes.ts` file

If you used the codemod _and_ Remix v2 `v3_routeConfig` flag, you can skip this step as it was automatically completed.

In React Router v7 you define your routes using the `app/routes.ts` file. View the [routing documentation](../start/framework/routing) for more information.

**ðŸ‘‰ Update dependencies (if using Remix v2 `v3_routeConfig` flag)**

    // app/routes.ts
    -import { type RouteConfig } from "@remix-run/route-config";
    -import { flatRoutes } from "@remix-run/fs-routes";
    -import { remixRoutesOptionAdapter } from "@remix-run/routes-option-adapter";
    +import { type RouteConfig } from "@react-router/dev/routes";
    +import { flatRoutes } from "@react-router/fs-routes";
    +import { remixRoutesOptionAdapter } from "@react-router/remix-routes-option-adapter";
    
    export default [
      // however your routes are defined
    ] satisfies RouteConfig;
    
    

**ðŸ‘‰ Add a `routes.ts` file (if _not_ using Remix v2 `v3_routeConfig` flag)**

    touch app/routes.ts
    

For backwards-compatibility and for folks who prefer [file-based conventions](../how-to/file-route-conventions), you can opt-into the same "flat routes" convention you are using in Remix v2 via the new `@react-router/fs-routes` package:

    import { type RouteConfig } from "@react-router/dev/routes";
    import { flatRoutes } from "@react-router/fs-routes";
    
    export default flatRoutes() satisfies RouteConfig;
    

Or, if you were using the `routes` option to define config-based routes:

    import { type RouteConfig } from "@react-router/dev/routes";
    import { remixRoutesOptionAdapter } from "@react-router/remix-routes-option-adapter";
    
    export default remixRoutesOptionAdapter((defineRoutes) => {
      return defineRoutes((route) => {
        route("/", "home/route.tsx", { index: true });
        route("about", "about/route.tsx");
        route("", "concerts/layout.tsx", () => {
          route("trending", "concerts/trending.tsx");
          route(":city", "concerts/city.tsx");
        });
      });
    }) satisfies RouteConfig;
    

If you were using the `routes` option in your `vite.config.ts`, be sure to remove it.

    export default defineConfig({
      plugins: [
        remix({
          ssr: true,
    -     ignoredRouteFiles: ['**/*'],
    -     routes(defineRoutes) {
    -       return defineRoutes((route) => {
    -         route("/somewhere/cool/*", "catchall.tsx");
    -       });
    -     },
        })
        tsconfigPaths(),
      ],
    });
    

## 5\. Add a React Router config

**ðŸ‘‰ Add `react-router.config.ts` your project**

The config that was previously passed to the `remix` plugin in `vite.config.ts` is now exported from `react-router.config.ts`.

Note: At this point you should remove the v3 future flags you added in step 1.

    touch react-router.config.ts
    

    // vite.config.ts
    export default defineConfig({
      plugins: [
    -   remix({
    -     ssr: true,
    -     future: {/* all the v3 flags */}
    -   }),
    +   reactRouter(),
        tsconfigPaths(),
      ],
    });
    
    // react-router.config.ts
    +import type { Config } from "@react-router/dev/config";
    +export default {
    +  ssr: true,
    +} satisfies Config;
    

## 6\. Add React Router plugin to `vite.config`

If you used the codemod you can skip this step as it was automatically completed.

**ðŸ‘‰ Add `reactRouter` plugin to `vite.config`**

Change `vite.config.ts` to import and use the new `reactRouter` plugin from `@react-router/dev/vite`:

    -import { vitePlugin as remix } from "@remix-run/dev";
    +import { reactRouter } from "@react-router/dev/vite";
    import { defineConfig } from "vite";
    import tsconfigPaths from "vite-tsconfig-paths";
    
    export default defineConfig({
      plugins: [
    -   remix(),
    +   reactRouter(),
        tsconfigPaths(),
      ],
    });
    

## 7\. Enable type safety

If you are not using TypeScript, you can skip this step.

React Router automatically generates types for your route modules into a `.react-router/` directory at the root of your app. This directory is fully managed by React Router and should be gitignore'd. Learn more about the [new type safety features](../explanation/type-safety).

**ðŸ‘‰ Add `.react-router/` to `.gitignore`**

    .react-router/
    

**ðŸ‘‰ Update `tsconfig.json`**

Update the `types` field in your `tsconfig.json` to include:

*   `.react-router/types/**/*` path in the `include` field
*   The appropriate `@react-router/*` package in the `types` field
*   `rootDirs` for simplified relative imports

    {
      "include": [
        /* ... */
    +   ".react-router/types/**/*"
      ],
      "compilerOptions": {
    -   "types": ["@remix-run/node", "vite/client"],
    +   "types": ["@react-router/node", "vite/client"],
        /* ... */
    +   "rootDirs": [".", "./.react-router/types"]
      }
    }
    

## 8\. Rename components in entry files

If you used the codemod you can skip this step as it was automatically completed.

If you have an `entry.server.tsx` and/or an `entry.client.tsx` file in your application, you will need to update the main components in these files:

    -import { RemixServer } from "@remix-run/react";
    +import { ServerRouter } from "react-router";
    
    -<RemixServer context={remixContext} url={request.url} />,
    +<ServerRouter context={remixContext} url={request.url} />,
    

    -import { RemixBrowser } from "@remix-run/react";
    +import { HydratedRouter } from "react-router/dom";
    
    hydrateRoot(
      document,
      <StrictMode>
    -   <RemixBrowser />
    +   <HydratedRouter />
      </StrictMode>,
    );
    

## 9\. Update types for `AppLoadContext`

If you were using `remix-serve` you can skip this step. This is only applicable if you were using a custom server in Remix v2.

Since React Router can be used as both a React framework _and_ a stand-alone routing library, the `context` argument for `LoaderFunctionArgs` and `ActionFunctionArgs` is now optional and typed as `any` by default. You can register types for your load context to get type safety for your loaders and actions.

ðŸ‘‰ **Register types for your load context**

Before you migrate to the new `Route.LoaderArgs` and `Route.ActionArgs` types, you can temporarily augment `LoaderFunctionArgs` and `ActionFunctionArgs` with your load context type to ease migration.

    declare module "react-router" {
      // Your AppLoadContext used in v2
      interface AppLoadContext {
        whatever: string;
      }
    
      // TODO: remove this once we've migrated to `Route.LoaderArgs` instead for our loaders
      interface LoaderFunctionArgs {
        context: AppLoadContext;
      }
    
      // TODO: remove this once we've migrated to `Route.ActionArgs` instead for our actions
      interface ActionFunctionArgs {
        context: AppLoadContext;
      }
    }
    
    export {}; // necessary for TS to treat this as a module
    

Using `declare module` to register types is a standard TypeScript technique called [module augmentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-merging.html#module-augmentation). You can do this in any TypeScript file covered by your `tsconfig.json`'s `include` field, but we recommend a dedicated `env.ts` within your app directory.

ðŸ‘‰ **Use the new types**

Once you adopt the [new type generation](../explanation/type-safety), you can remove the `LoaderFunctionArgs`/`ActionFunctionArgs` augmentations and use the `context` argument from [`Route.LoaderArgs`](about:blank/start/framework/data-loading#server-data-loading) and [`Route.ActionArgs`](about:blank/start/framework/actions#server-actions) instead.

    declare module "react-router" {
      // Your AppLoadContext used in v2
      interface AppLoadContext {
        whatever: string;
      }
    }
    
    export {}; // necessary for TS to treat this as a module
    

    import type { Route } from "./+types/my-route";
    
    export function loader({ context }: Route.LoaderArgs) {}
    // { whatever: string }  ^^^^^^^
    
    export function action({ context }: Route.ActionArgs) {}
    // { whatever: string }  ^^^^^^^
    

Congratulations! You are now on React Router v7. Go ahead and run your application to make sure everything is working as expected.
