# framework-pending-ui

> When the user navigates to a new route, or submits data to an action, the UI should immediately respond to the user's actions with a pending or optimistic state. Application code is responsible for this.

# Pending UI

## Introduction

When the user navigates to a new route, or submits data to an action, the UI should immediately respond to the user's actions with a pending or optimistic state. Application code is responsible for this.

## Global Pending Navigation

When the user navigates to a new url, the loaders for the next page are awaited before the next page renders. You can get the pending state from `useNavigation`.

    import { useNavigation } from "react-router";

    export default function Root() {
      const navigation = useNavigation();
      const isNavigating = Boolean(navigation.location);

      return (
        <html>
          <body>
            {isNavigating && <GlobalSpinner />}
            <Outlet />
          </body>
        </html>
      );
    }

## Local Pending Navigation

Pending indicators can also be localized to the link. NavLink's children, className, and style props can be functions that receive the pending state.

    import { NavLink } from "react-router";

    function Navbar() {
      return (
        <nav>
          <NavLink to="/home">
            {({ isPending }) => (
              <span>Home {isPending && <Spinner />}</span>
            )}
          </NavLink>
          <NavLink
            to="/about"
            style={({ isPending }) => ({
              color: isPending ? "gray" : "black",
            })}
          >
            About
          </NavLink>
        </nav>
      );
    }

## Pending Form Submission

When a form is submitted, the UI should immediately respond to the user's actions with a pending state. This is easiest to do with a [fetcher](https://api.reactrouter.com/v7/functions/react_router.useFetcher.html) form because it has it's own independent state (whereas normal forms cause a global navigation).

    import { useFetcher } from "react-router";

    function NewProjectForm() {
      const fetcher = useFetcher();

      return (
        <fetcher.Form method="post">
          <input type="text" name="title" />
          <button type="submit">
            {fetcher.state !== "idle"
              ? "Submitting..."
              : "Submit"}
          </button>
        </fetcher.Form>
      );
    }

For non-fetcher form submissions, pending states are available on `useNavigation`.

    import { useNavigation, Form } from "react-router";

    function NewProjectForm() {
      const navigation = useNavigation();

      return (
        <Form method="post" action="/projects/new">
          <input type="text" name="title" />
          <button type="submit">
            {navigation.formAction === "/projects/new"
              ? "Submitting..."
              : "Submit"}
          </button>
        </Form>
      );
    }

## Optimistic UI

When the future state of the UI is known by the form submission data, an optimistic UI can be implemented for instant UX.

    function Task({ task }) {
      const fetcher = useFetcher();

      let isComplete = task.status === "complete";
      if (fetcher.formData) {
        isComplete =
          fetcher.formData.get("status") === "complete";
      }

      return (
        <div>
          <div>{task.title}</div>
          <fetcher.Form method="post">
            <button
              name="status"
              value={isComplete ? "incomplete" : "complete"}
            >
              {isComplete ? "Mark Incomplete" : "Mark Complete"}
            </button>
          </fetcher.Form>
        </div>
      );
    }

---

Next: [Testing](./testing)
